=pod

=head1 NAME

Algorithm::FloodControl - Limit event processing to count/time ratio.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head2 Functional interface

    use Algorithm::FloodControl;

    my $wait = flood_check( 5, 60, 'FLOOD EVENT NAME' );

    if( $wait ) {
        print "Please wait $wait sec. before requesting this resource again.";
    } else {
        print "Ok, here you are.";
    }  

=head2 Object-oriented interface

    use Algorithm::FloodControl ();

    my $flood_control = Algorithm::FloodControl->new(
        storage => $memd, 
        limits => {
            limit_name => [
                {
                    period => 60,
                    attempts => 5,
                }, {
                    period => 3600,
                    attempts => 30,
                }
            ]
        }
    );

    $flood_control->register_attempt( limit_name => 'vasja_pupkin' );

    my $attempt_count = $flood_control->get_attempt_count( limit_name => 'vasja_pupkin' ); # 1

    if ( $flood_control->is_user_overrated( limit_name => 'vasja_pupkin' ) ) {
        die "Ненене, Девид Блейн (:";
    }


=head1 DESCRIPTION

"Flood control" method is used to restrict the number of events to happen or 
to be processed in specific perion of time. Few examples are: web server can 
limit requsets number to a page or you may want to receive no more than 10 SMS 
messages on your GSM Phone per hour. Applications of this method are unlimited.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

This module exports several functions:

=over 4

=item flood_check( $count, $time, $event_name )

This function is the core of the module. It receives 3 arguments: maximum event 
count, maximum time period (in seconds) for this event count and finally the event 
name. There is internal storage so flood_check() can track several events by name.

Third argument could be omitted. In this case the event name will be constructed
from the package name, file name and line number from the calling point. However
this is not recommendet unless you need it for very simple program.

The return value is time in seconds that this event must wait to be processed
or 0 if event can be processed immediately.

=item flood_storage( <$ref> )

If you want to save and restore the internal storage (for example for cgi use),
you can get reference to it with flood_storage() function which returns this
reference and it can be stored with other module like FreezeThaw or Storable.
When restoring you must pass the storage reference as single argument to
flood_storage().

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item new( storage => $cache, limits => \%limits )

Creates new object. $cache can be Cache::Memcached or Cache::Memcached::Fast object.


=item register_attempt( $identifier )

Increments attempt counter for $identifier.

=item forget_attempts( $identifier )

Sets attempt counter to zero

=item get_attempt_count( $identifier )

Returns count of attempts

=item is_user_overrated( $identifier )

If user have reached his limits returns time to unlocking in seconds. Otherwise returns 0

=back


=head1 EXAMPLE

CGI script is very usefull as example because it has all elements of
Algorithm::FloodControl use:

    #!/usr/bin/perl
    use strict;
    use Storable qw( store retrieve ); # used to save/restore the internal data
    use LockFile::Simple qw( lock unlock ); # used to lock the data file
    use Algorithm::FloodControl;

    my $flood_file = "/tmp/flood-cgi.dat";

    lock( $flood_file );                                   # lock the storage
    my $FLOOD = retrieve( $flood_file ) if -r $flood_file; # read storage data
    flood_storage( $FLOOD ) if $FLOOD;                     # load storage 
    my $wait = flood_check( 5, 60, 'FLOOD TEST CGI' );     # check for flood
    store( flood_storage(), $flood_file );                 # save storage data
    unlock( $flood_file );                                 # unlock the file

    print "Content-type: text/plain\n\n";
    if( $wait ) {
        print "Please wait $wait seconds before requesting this page again.\n";
        exit;
    }
    print "Hello, this is main script here\n";

This example is just one of very large number of cases where flood control can
be useful. I used it in IRC bots, email notifications, web site updates, etc.

=head1 AUTHOR

    Vladi Belperchinov-Shabanski "Cade" - up to 1.00

    <cade@biscom.net> <cade@datamax.bg> <cade@cpan.org>

    http://cade.datamax.bg

    Andrey Kostenko "GuGu" <andrey@kostenko.name> - 1.00 - 2.00

    http://kostenko.name

=head1 BUGS

No bugs.

=head1 NOTES

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


=head1 VERSION

    $Id: FloodControl.pm 7 2008-11-06 12:51:33Z gugu $


=cut

